So contravariant functors are functors
that operate on their first value.
So if I have a function from a to string,
right, and
I know it will always return me a string.
But I can take in any a to begin with.
I can map over the a and turn it into a b
but it will always end up on a string.
SO an example of that, and
we could do this with sort functions,
predicate functions.
Predicate functions take in anything and
return a Bool, right,
sorting functions return an enum of -1,
0, 1, or something.
But we're able to map
over to the argument, and
this is kind of like a superpower, right?
So if I start off with a function,
let's do Reducer because
that one's kinda fun.
So this takes, I'll say run.
And, what is Reducer holding?
It's a taking an accumulator and an x or
some a returning a new accumulator, right?
So, accumulators fixed.
I can't map over it, it can't change that.
But it can change each of these values
a to a b cuz it doesn't really matter,
so that it sets like an input
type that I can map over.
So let's go ahead and model Reducers.
And we have a run function exposed.
And we have a concat.
So let's just so
how we can concat two Reducers.
We could take a Reducer, I'm actually
not gonna deliver that you can
concat two Reducers just by merging the
accumulators or picking one or the other.
Let's do contramap.
This is the thing we're focused on.
So, contramap takes a function f.
And instead of writing map where
we would map over the output,
we're gonna map over the input,
does that look like.
We're returning a new Reducer
because we're mapping,
we take our accumulator and our value.
And we're gonna run our thing
on the accumulator, and
we're gonna hit that x
before it ever gets there.
So, what we've done is transformed
the value before it got to our function.
And we're able to do these contramaps.
And that is useful if you have a bunch
of functions you're gonna combine.
So, I can make a few Reducers.
We could write concat here real quick,
but let's say we have Reducer like login.
And another we're gonna concat
that with a Reducer that's
like change page or whatever.
And the thing is if I wanna run
this with just like a payload,
just some kind of like,
let's say this is like the action.
It has a user and
the user has a bunch of stuff and
it's got like an environment and
that's got a bunch of stuff.
When I'm able to do is actually
contramap each of these functions and
actually pluck values off the payload.
So we'll get the user here,
And then we concat
that with change page which should take us
make this the router or the current page.
Change page should will contramap
the payload and taken the current page.
All right so, we've done is combined
two Reducers, both of them have
been contramapped in advance to take
this one input and transform it into
what they're actually looking for
as an input to their functions.
And then, I'm running it with
some state and some payload new,
get all those and run it.
So the point is, contramap hits
arguments before it comes in.
That's part of the exercises.
So I wanted to call that out.
Does anybody have any questions
on how contramap works?
Cool, this is going swimmingly,
stuff is hard.
[LAUGH] All right, so we have, yes?
>> So the purpose of contramap is
to keep the entire payload going
through this system, but plucking things
off and passing it to inner functions?
>> That's a good question.
That is one use case you can do,
you can say like I'm combining a bunch of
functions but
they all take different inputs, right?
And I'm gonna call run once after
I've combined all my functions.
So this is one use case I was using
reducers to say like, hey, you have all
these reducers that you've combined but
they all take different inputs.
Well we can contramap
before they get there.
So if you're combining functions into one,
you might wanna manipulate
stuff before they get there.
And this provides it's
almost like a before hook.
Whereas map would be like an after hook.
So that gives you the ability
to kind of get in there and
change the argument before it arrives.
And that tends to really only be useful
in situations where you're combining
functions into one and
they all take the same input.
And it's also useful in situations
where you have a fixed output
and the fixed output is static, but
the input is not, and you're able
to pre-compose instead of post compose
to be able to build out applications.